.\" lwm, a window manager for X11
.\" Copyright (C) 1997-2003 Elliott Hughes, James Carter
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
.\" 
.TH LWM 1
.SH NAME
lwm \- Lightweight Window Manager for the X Window System
.SH SYNTAX
\fBlwm \fP[ \fB\-s\fP \fIsession-id\fP ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fILwm\fP is a window manager for the X Window System. It provides enough
features to allow the user to manage their windows, and no more.
.PP
Windows are surrounded by a frame with a 
titlebar at the top next to a small box. The frame is a grey colour for
all windows except that which has the input focus, where it is black.
.PP
In the default configuration, \fIlwm\fP uses the enter-to-focus scheme, where
moving the pointer into a window gives that window the input focus.
\fILwm\fP may also be configured to use the click-to-focus scheme, where a
window must be clicked on (with any button) to receive the input focus. Clicking
on a window in this mode causes the window to be raised. Note that a click
used to focus a window is always swallowed by \fIlwm\fP, so clicking a
button in a new window requires two clicks.
.PP
A button 1 click on a window frame brings that window to the top. Dragging
button 1 on the frame of a resizable window repositions that edge of
the window. If a corner rather than an edge is dragged, then both edges
forming the corner are repositioned. While you're reshaping a window,
a little window pops up to show you the window's current size.
.PP
In the default configuration, button 1 on the root window does nothing.
.PP
Button 2 is used to drag a window by its frame, repositioning the window
but maintaining its position in the window stack.
.PP
In the default configuration, button 2 on the root window brings up a
new shell.
.PP
A button 3 click on a window frame hides that window.  Pressing
button 3 on the root window brings up a menu. The various items unhide
the named hidden window.
.PP
A button 3 click in the frame while Shift is held down pushes the window
to the back, under any other windows. (Users with 4-button mice are
encouraged to use their fourth button for this function.)
.PP
A click with any button inside the little white box in a window's frame
can be used to close the window.
.SH OPTIONS
\fILwm\fP accepts the following command line options:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-s
specifies a client ID for the X Session Management system, and is used
exclusively by session managers.
.SH RESOURCES
\fILwm\fP understands the following X resources:
.TP 12
.B titlefont
font used in window titles
.TP 12
.B popupFont
font used in popup window (menu/size indicator)
.TP 12
.B border
width in pixels of window borders
.TP 12
.B button1
program spawned when button 1 is clicked on the root window
.TP 12
.B button2
program spawned when button 2 is clicked on the root window
.TP 12
.B focus
focus mode, one of "enter" for enter-to-focus (or sloppy focus), or
"click" for click-to-focus
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
X(7)
.SH AUTHORS
Elliott Hughes <ehughes@bluearc.com>,
James Carter <james@jfc.org.uk>
